i heard on the news today that a famous
person
a celebrity died of colon cancer
i happened to be vegan it popped into my
head that i could do a quick google
search
i could find out how much better or how
much worse are my chances
of dying of colon cancer in my early 40s
as the celebrity had died in his early
40s
one website told me vegans have a 16
percent
better chance of never getting colon
cancer
another website used a different
scientific study
um that concerned vegetarians rather
than vegans and came to inclusion it was
22 percent better odds for uh for
vegetarians
dr greger dr michael greger
the leader of nutritionfacts.org
with his budget of over 2
million dollars per annum
has a website that opens
with the bold declaration that 70
of cases of colon cancer are avertable
and then the very next sentence is an
equally bold declaration
that a vegan diet can help you avert
prevent and even reverse colon cancer
no no it doesn't tell you doesn't tell
you that your odds are 70
better it doesn't tell you that it
doesn't even insinuate that the 70
statistic however is the only statistic
in
in the article you never get the 16
you never get 22 percent you never get
any any other number to help you
calibrate your expectations for how
great the health benefits
of a vegan diet or swiss no no 70
percent
and then this vague but passionate
assurance
that this has some dramatic health
benefit the whole article
is written in what we would call weasel
words
that's a wikipedia term or it's a term
popularized by wikipedia
it is written in a manner that is
obfuscatory
misleading and that uses science
in such a dishonest way that it becomes
pseudoscience this was not my only
experience
with dr michael greger today today
i saw a video on his channel that
assures you
assures you that the cause
of acne is
dairy and meat in the american diet
until recently for example only a week
association has been accepted for the
role of milk and dairy products in acne
formation
but there is now substantial evidence
supporting the effects of milk and dairy
products as enhancers
of acne aggravation more than 85
of teens in western countries exhibit
acne
this implies that the majority of our
population is living with
over-activated tor signaling a major
disease-causing factor
so early dietary counseling of teenage
acne patients is thus
a great opportunity for dermatology
which will not only help to improve acne
but may reduce the long-term
adverse effects of western diet on more
serious tour driven diseases
whereas on the island of okinawa
nobody has acne
but it's considered a disease of western
civilization
meaning in some places like okinawa it
was rare or even
non-existent constantly insisting
that veganism is the solution to the
problem
of acne as evidenced by the population
of okinawa who are not vegan
no significant percentage of people of
okinawa are vegan
most of the vegan restaurants in okinawa
are for white western tourists who are
there to swim at the beach
or who work at the american air force
base or whatever
the people of okinawa are not vegan
there's already this bizarre
form of lie and deception built into
holding up okinawa as an example or a
paragon of the
health benefits a vegan diet can bring
into your life
people of okinawa have acne
it is just absurd to pretend
both halves of that equation are
completely false like you want to argue
you want to insinuate
vegan diet equals no acne so you then
say
people of okinawa eating the okinawan
diet
right no acne it's all completely false
go to google maps
and you can just use google translate
put in the japanese term
for dermatologist or acne clinic in
particular
you think nobody in okinawa has acne if
you
watch a video of people walking around
downtown okinawa they look like normal
people they look like you and me
and you're also going to see mcdonald's
restaurant you're going to see
all kinds of modern unhealthy food the
japanese diet and the food being sold
on the street visible from sidewalk
level
it's not vegan and it's not healthy the
people of okinawa are
not paragons of good health and even if
they were
they're not vegan
this youtube video insinuates
and obfuscates and uses the most
dishonest weasel words
imaginable to try to lead the audience
to the conclusion
that if they have acne it's because
they're eating a non-vegan diet
and that a vegan diet will cure acne but
it never says
those words it never says that veganism
will cure acne
he shows a series of screenshots
of scientific studies he doesn't tell
you how those scientific studies relate
to the thesis
he's presenting right this is like again
it's the use
of scientific facts to create a
scientific fiction
it's the abuse of science as
pseudoscience right
he seems to know what he's talking about
and he seems to just have this vague
conviction
that acne is linked to
the diseases of the decadent west and
these diseases of the decadent west
are caused by a non-vegan diet and
they're cured by a vegan diet
so you fill in the blanks and the people
of okinawa they
allegedly don't have acne right and and
and they have it's never we're never
what is the diet in okinawa
do people in okinawa eat fish do people
in okinawa eat at mcdonald's do people
okay now i have dermatologists if you go
to okinawa just leave through the
newspaper
are you going to see ads for acne cream
do you think in the pharmacies of
okinawa they're not selling no
no yeah right never mind this is a hoax
this is a scam and there are millions of
dollars
involved there's also a long-term
process whereby the vegan movement
is discredited by the people who are
making the most money
out of propounding veganism you know
muste's
no intro no outro just real talk a few
people
were mortified and scandalized that i
as a vegan as an aspiring vegan activist
that i would criticize dr
michael greger for the brutal financial
reality
that they are collecting 1.5
million dollars per year
in round numbers about one and a half
million dollars per year in donations
in order to produce youtube videos
just look at the website just look at
their youtube channel
you cannot take a glance at
what that foundation is doing and say
that this justifies
a budget of 1.5 million dollars per
annum
when you have a finite project a finite
budget
you're raising money for you
know how much is enough
this is of profound ethical
dr greger is asking for more donations
right now and nobody nobody except me
has stood up and said two million
dollars
is enough how will he
know how will he know when he has enough
if you keep giving him more money he'll
find ways to spend it
the fundraising page for dr greger's
charity that seems to behave like a
business from my perspective nutrition
facts that are still
constantly asking for donations a couple
of years ago
it was 1.5 million dollars then it was
about 2 million now they're well over
2 million per annum
and they say oh behind the scenes um
we have a dozen employees well do you
pay
every single one of your dozen employees
more than
150 000 a year
really really you have a dozen employees
writing that article
preparing that youtube video making
these vague dishonest claims with
feedback really it takes a dozen really
this is an organization that as it
pushed from 1.5 million
to 2 million to above 2 million
per annum in income
um you know they never had
they never had the shred of intellectual
integrity
you would need to say the honest truth
about any of these things
and i've seen the damage done all right
i have known people who were misled
by promises that the vegan diet
would cure their acne and it doesn't
it doesn't work what happens
what happens when you have a political
movement
that's based on false promises
what happens when the loudest and best
funded
voices in your movement earn their
living
through over-the-top exaggerated
promises
and hyperbole there are a whole lot of
people in the vegan movement
telling you the reasonable truth about
the diet about the ethics about the
impact in the environment
they don't have two million dollars a
year to spend right
i feel that we as a movement we don't
have
two million dollars to lose i mean
really
people like to disrespect my crew but
the fact is that you know my name and i
don't know you